{% include navigation.html %}


### 5.1 - Beneficial and Harmful Effects

- Programs can be beneficial, but can also be used in harmful ways (Drones can be used to drop bombs and do unethical surveillance)
- Computing can have negative health effects (dopamine spikes, addiction, etc.)
- Flowcharts & Unified Modeling Language - different styles of coding, used to model procedures (what they will do). 

Actions:
1. Come up with three of your own Beneficial and corresponding Harmful Effects of Computing
   1. Beneficial
      1. We can further education
      2. Drones can help us take amazing aerial photos and videos
      3. We can learn more about the universe
   1. Harmful
      1. Computing can be used to take advantage of some people
      2. Drones can be used to transport drugs
      3. Computers can be used to violate people’s privacy
2. Talk about dopamine issues above. Real? Parent conspiracy? Anything that is impacting your personal study and success in High School?
 - Dopamine issues are a real problem in our lives. Dopamine is created when we are addicted to something because our brains think that it creates happiness. Dopamine issues are real, as we see in some gamers. Mr. Mortensen gave the example of Anthony Roser. Addiction to gaming can cause anxiety and exhaustion. I think sleeping is a major thing that is impacting my personal study. I usually will take naps during the day and stay up late to finish my homework.

- I understand the concern about dopamine and things like video games, but I think that if you have self control it won't be a problem. I have never missed school or had my grades suffer because of games or sleep.

---

### 5.2 - Digital Divide

- Not all people have access to the internet or computer programs because of where they live or their financially stability
- Can also depend on government - Some governments regulate the access to technology for their citizens, such as North Korea.
- Coders and programers should have digital divide in mind when creating or working on computer software

Actions: 
1. Empowering yourself in the digital world means to give yourself the correct resources and materials to thrive and reach your full potential.
2. People who are empowered can help others by teaching them what they have learned or donating the materials needed for others to succeed as they once did.
3. I think that red tape increases the digital divide because it slows down or stops the rate at which people with less technological opportunites can reach the same level of understanding or knowledge that others can and may hold back people from reaching their full potential.