{% include navigation.html %}

{% include study.html %}

### 5.5 - Legal and Ethical Concerns

- Companies and teams use different licenses when publishing their work
- Linux: free for use to the public, Open Source
- Qualcomm: makes money on patents, not possible with same license as Linux
- Always cite sources (code, images, etc.)
- Businesses need to make money, but won't last without open source software


Actions:

1. I think that if I wanted to make a profit off of my projects, I would use something like the Open Source MIT license, which would allow me to sell closed source versions of it. If I wanted my projects to be available to everyone and free to use, I would use Creative Commons 0 or GPL.

2. The license I have chosen for my personal GitHub pages is GNU GPLv3, because I want people to be able to use the information I provide without having to pay for it. Since this material is educational, I want people to easily access it, which is easiest to do with GPL. This license also allows people to modify or add on to my project, and also make those projects open source and free to use by other people.

---

### 5.6 - Safe Computing

- Personal Identifiable Information (PII): Information about you on the internet, some of it good, other info can be harmful
- Good: Name, email, accomplishments, credit report, etc.
- Bad: passwords, SSN, tax records, Address, etc.
- Use things like 2-Factor authentication to stay safe, beware malware, phishing, etc
- Encryption (symmetric and asymmetric) help keep information and data access off the web

Actions:

1. PII that we include in our CSP projects is our names, what school we go to, our previous projects/assignments.
2. I think that I am not very exposed, there is little to no bad PII on the web.
3. A good password is long, random, and uses alphanumerics and special symbols. A bad password is short and easy to guess.
4. Symmetric encryption only uses 1 (private) key, and is faster but less secure. Asymmetric encryption is a more modern method that uses 2 keys (public and private), which takes longer but is more secure.
5. When we deploy, we encode private information about the machine and user that made the deployment, such as IP address.
6. An example of a phishing method would be if someone sent you an email disguised as a bank official and asked you to verify your bank information. Another example would be if someone called you pretending to be an IRS officer asking you to provide payment of your "missed taxes" through gift cards.